This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.

Acrobatic
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Jump checks and Tumble checks.
Special: Remember that the Tumble skill can't be used untrained.

Advanced Combat Martial Arts
Prerequisites: Combat Martial Arts, Improved Combat Martial Arts, base attack bonus +8.
Benefit: When the character scores a critical hit on an opponent with an unarmed strike, the character deals triple damage.
Normal: An unarmed strike critical hit deals double damage.

Advanced Firearms Proficiency
Prerequisite: Personal Firearms Proficiency.
Benefit: The character can fire any personal firearm on autofire without penalty (provided, of course, that it has an autofire setting).
Normal: Characters without this feat take a -4 penalty on attack rolls made with personal firearms set on autofire.

Advanced Two-Weapon Fighting
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Two-Weapon Fighting, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +11.
Benefit: The character gets a third attack with his or her offhand weapon, albeit at a -10 penalty.  This feat also allows the character to use a melee weapon in one hand and a ranged weapon in the other.

Agile Riposte
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge.
Benefit: Once per round, if the opponent the character has designated as his or her dodge target (see the Dodge feat) makes a melee attack or melee touch attack against the character and misses, the character may make an attack of opportunity against that opponent. Resolve and apply the effects from both attacks simultaneously.
Even a character with the Combat Reflexes feat can't use the Agile Riposte feat more than once per round. This feat does not grant more attacks of opportunity than the character is normally allowed in a round.

Aircraft Operation
Select a class of aircraft (heavy aircraft, helicopters, jet fighters, or spacecraft). The character is proficient at operating that class of aircraft.
The heavy aircraft class includes jumbo passenger airplanes, large cargo planes, heavy bombers, and any other aircraft with three or more engines. Helicopters include transport and combat helicopters of all types. Jet fighters include military fighter and ground attack jets. Spacecraft are vehicles such as the space shuttle and the lunar lander.
Prerequisite: Pilot 4 ranks.
Benefit: The character takes no penalty on Pilot checks or attack rolls made when operating an aircraft of the selected class.
Normal: Characters without this feat take a -4 penalty on Pilot checks made to operate an aircraft that falls in any of these classes, and on attacks made with aircraft weapons. There is no penalty when the character operates a general-purpose aircraft.
Special: The character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, the character selects a different class of aircraft.

Alertness
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Listen checks and Spot checks. 

Animal Affinity
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Handle Animal checks and Ride checks. 
Special: Remember that the Handle Animal skill can't be used untrained.

Archaic Weapons Proficiency
Benefit: The character takes no penalty on attack rolls when using any kind of archaic weapon.
Normal: A character without this feat takes the -4 nonproficient penalty when making attacks with archaic weapons.

Armor Proficiency (heavy)
Prerequisites: Armor Proficiency (light), Armor Proficiency (medium).
Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light).
Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light).

Armor Proficiency (light)
Benefit: When a character wears a type of armor with which he or she is proficient, the character gets to add the armor's equipment bonus to his or her Defense. Also, the armor check penalty applies only to Balance, Climb, Escape Artist, Hide, Jump, Move Silently, and Tumble checks.
Normal: A character who wears armor with which he or she is not proficient adds only the armor's nonproficient equipment bonus to his or her Defense. Also, he or she suffers its armor check penalty on attack rolls and on all skill checks that involve moving.

Armor Proficiency (medium)
Prerequisite: Armor Proficiency (light).
Benefit: See Armor Proficiency (light).
Normal: See Armor Proficiency (light).

Athletic
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Climb checks and Swim checks. 

Attentive
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Investigate checks and Sense Motive checks. 
Special: Remember that the Investigate skill can't be used untrained.

Blind-Fight
Benefit: In melee combat, every time the character misses because of concealment, the character can reroll the miss chance roll one time to see if the character actually hits.
The character takes only half the usual penalty to speed for being unable to see. Darkness and poor visibility in general reduces the character's speed to three-quarters of normal, instead of one-half.

Brawl
Benefit: When making an unarmed attack, the character receives a +1 competence bonus on attack rolls, and the character deals nonlethal damage equal to 1d6 + his or her Strength modifier.
Normal: Unarmed attacks normally deal nonlethal damage equal to 1d3 + Strength modifier.

Builder
Benefit: Pick two of the following skills: Craft (chemical), Craft (electronic), Craft (mechanical), and Craft (structural). The character gets a +2 bonus on all checks with those skills.
Special: The character can select this feat twice. The second time, the character applies it to the two skills he or she didn't pick originally. Remember that Craft (chemical), Craft (electronic), and Craft (mechanical) cannot be used untrained.

Burst Fire
Prerequisites: Wisdom 13, Personal Firearms Proficiency, Advanced Firearms Proficiency.
Benefit: When using an automatic firearm with at least five bullets loaded, the character may fire a short burst as a single attack against a single target. The character receives a -4 penalty on the attack roll, but deal +2 dice of damage.
Firing a burst expends five bullets and can only be done if the weapon has five bullets in it.
Normal: Autofire uses ten bullets, targets a 10-foot-by-10-foot area, and can't be aimed at a specific target. Without this feat, if a character attempts an autofire attack at a specific target, it simply counts as a normal attack and all the extra bullets are wasted.
Special: If the firearm has a three-round burst setting, firing a burst expends three bullets instead of five and can be used if the weapon has only three bullets in it.

Cautious
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Demolitions checks and Disable Device checks.
Special: Remember that the Demolitions skill and the Disable Device skill can't be used untrained.

Cleave
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack.
Benefit: If the character deals an opponent enough damage to make the opponent drop (either by knocking the opponent out due to massive damage or by reducing the opponent's hit points to less than 0), the character gets an immediate extra melee attack against another opponent adjacent to the character. The character can't take a 5-foot step before making this extra attack. The extra attack is with the same weapon and at the same bonus as the attack that dropped the previous opponent. The character can use this ability once per round.

Combat Expertise
Prerequisite: Intelligence 13.
Benefit: When the character uses the attack action or the full attack action in melee, the character can take a penalty of up to -5 on his or her attack roll and add the same number (up to +5) to the character's Defense. This number may not exceed the character's base attack bonus. The changes to attack rolls and Defense last until the character's next action. The bonus to the character's Defense is a dodge bonus (and as such it stacks with other dodge bonuses the character may have).
Normal: A character without the Combat Expertise feat can fight defensively while using the attack or full attack action to take a -4 penalty on attacks and gain a +2 dodge bonus to Defense.

Combat Martial Arts
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: With an unarmed strike, the character deals lethal or nonlethal damage (the character's choice) equal to 1d4 + the character's Strength modifier. The character's unarmed attacks count as armed, which means that opponents do not get attacks of opportunity when the character attacks them unarmed. The character may make attacks of opportunity against opponents who provoke such attacks.
Normal: Without this feat, a character deals only 1d3 points of nonlethal damage. Unarmed attacks normally provoke attacks of opportunity, and unarmed combatants cannot normally make attacks of opportunity.

Combat Reflexes
Benefit: The maximum number of attacks of opportunity the character may make each round is equal to the character's Dexterity modifier + 1.  The character can still only make one attack of opportunity on a single opponent.
With this feat, the character may also make attacks of opportunity when flat-footed.
Normal: A character without the Combat Reflexes feat can make only one attack of opportunity per round and can't make attacks of opportunity when flat-footed.
Special: The Combat Reflexes feat doesn't allow a Fast hero with the opportunist talent to use that talent more than once per round.

Combat Throw
Prerequisite: Defensive Martial Arts.
Benefit: The character gains a +2 bonus on opposed Strength and Dexterity checks any time the character attempts trip or grapple attacks, or when the character trys to avoid a trip or grapple attack made against him or her.

Confident
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Gamble checks and Intimidate checks, and on level checks to resist intimidation.

Creative
Benefit: Pick two of the following skills: Craft (visual art), Craft (writing), Perform (act), Perform (dance), Perform (keyboards), Perform (percussion instruments), Perform (sing), Perform (stand-up), Perform (string instruments), and Perform (wind instruments). The character gets a +2 bonus on all checks with those two skills.
Special: A character can select this feat as many as five times. Each time, the character selects two new skills from the choices given above.

Dead Aim
Prerequisites: Wisdom 13, Far Shot.
Benefit: Before making a ranged attack, the character may take a full-round action to line up your shot. This grants the character a +2 circumstance bonus on his or her next attack roll. Once the character begins aiming, he or she can't move, even to take a 5-foot step, until after the character makes his or her next attack, or the benefit of the feat is lost. Likewise, if the character's concentration is disrupted or the character is attacked before his or her next action, the character loses the benefit of aiming.

Deceptive
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Bluff checks and Disguise checks.

Defensive Martial Arts
Benefit: The character gains a +1 dodge bonus to Defense against melee attacks.
Special: A condition that makes the character lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense also makes the character lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack, unlike most other types of bonuses.

Dodge
Prerequisite: Dexterity 13.
Benefit: During the character's action, the character designates an opponent and receives a +1 dodge bonus to Defense against any subsequent attacks from that opponent. The character can select a new opponent on any action.
Special: A condition that makes the character lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense also makes the character lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

Double Tap
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Point Blank Shot.
Benefit: When using a semiautomatic firearm with at least two bullets loaded, the character may fire two bullets as a single attack against a single target. The character receives a -2 penalty on this attack, but deals +1 die of damage with a successful hit. Using this feat fires two bullets and can only be done if the weapon has two bullets in it.

Drive-By Attack
Benefit: The character takes no vehicle speed penalty when making an attack while in a moving vehicle. Also, if the character is the driver, he or she can take his or her attack action to make an attack at any point along the vehicle's movement.
Normal: When attacking from a moving vehicle, a character takes a penalty based on the vehicle's speed. Passengers can ready an action to make an attack when their vehicle reaches a particular location, but the driver must make his or her attack action either before or after the vehicle's movement.

Educated
Benefit: Pick two Knowledge skills. The character gets a +2 bonus on all checks with those skills.
Special: A character can select this feat as many as seven times. Each time, the character selects two new Knowledge skills. 

Elusive Target
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Defensive Martial Arts.
Benefit: When fighting an opponent or multiple opponents in melee, other opponents attempting to target the character with ranged attacks take a -4 penalty. This penalty is in addition to the normal -4 penalty for firing into melee, making the penalty to target to character -8.
Special: An opponent with the Precise Shot feat has the penalty lessened to -4 when targeting the character.

Endurance
Benefit: The character gains a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: hourly Swim checks to avoid becoming fatigued, Constitution checks to continue running, Constitution checks to hold the character's breath, Constitution checks to avoid damage from starvation or thirst, Fortitude saves to avoid damage from hot or cold environments, and Fortitude saves to resist suffocation or drowning.
Also, the character may sleep in medium or light armor without becoming fatigued.
Normal: A character without this feat who sleeps in armor is automatically fatigued the following day.

Exotic Firearms Proficiency
Choose a weapon type from the following list: cannons, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, and rocket launchers. 
Prerequisites: Personal Firearms Proficiency, Advanced Firearms Proficiency.
Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with the weapon normally.
Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with it takes a -4 penalty on attack rolls.
Special: A character can gain this feat as many as four times. Each time a character takes the feat, he or she selects a different weapon group.

Exotic Melee Weapon Proficiency
Choose one exotic melee weapon from. The character is proficient with that melee weapon in combat.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with the weapon normally.
Normal: A character who uses a weapon without being proficient with it takes a -4 penalty on attack rolls. 
Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, he or she selects a different exotic melee weapon.

Far Shot
Benefit: When the character uses a firearm or archaic ranged weapon, its range increment increases by one-half (multiply by 1.5). When the character throws a weapon, its range increment is doubled.

Focused
Benefit: The character gets get a +2 bonus on all Balance checks and Concentration checks.

Force Stop
Prerequisites: Drive 4 ranks, Vehicle Expert.
Benefit: When the character attempts a sideswipe stunt with a surface vehicle, the character can force the other vehicle to a stop by nudging it into a controlled sideways skid. In addition to the normal requirements for attempting a sideswipe stunt, the character must have sufficient movement remaining to move a number of squares equal to the character's turn number.
After succeeding on the check to attempt the sideswipe, the character makes a Drive check opposed by the other driver. If the character succeeds, turn the other vehicle 90 degrees across the front of the character's, so that they form a tee. Move them forward a distance equal to the character's turn number. The vehicles end their movement at that location, at stationary speed, and take their normal sideswipe damage.
If the character fails the check, resolve the sideswipe normally.

Frightful Presence
Prerequisites: Charisma 15, Intimidate 9 ranks.
Benefit: When the character uses this feat, all opponents within 10 feet who have fewer levels than the character must make a Will saving throw (DC 10 + 1/2 the character's level + the character's Charisma modifier). An opponent who fails his or her save is shaken, taking a -2 penalty on attack rolls, saves, and skill checks for a number of rounds equal to 1d6 + the character's Charisma modifier. The character can use the feat once per round as a free action.
A successful save indicates that the opponent is immune to the character's use of this feat for 24 hours. This feat does not affect creatures with an Intelligence of 3 or lower.
If the character has the Renown feat, the Will saving throw's DC increases by 5.

Gearhead
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Computer Use checks and Repair checks. 
Special: Remember that the Computer Use skill and the Repair skill can only be used untrained in certain situations.

Great Cleave
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack, Cleave, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: As Cleave, except that the character has no limit to the number of times he or she can use it per round.

Great Fortitude
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Fortitude saving throws.

Guide
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Navigate checks and Survival checks. 

Heroic Surge
Benefit: The character may take an extra move action or attack action in a round, either before or after the character's regular actions. The character may use Heroic Surge a number of times per day depending on his or her character level (as shown below), but never more than once per round.

Improved Brawl
Prerequisites: Brawl, base attack bonus +3.
Benefit: When making an unarmed attack, the character receives a +2 competence bonus on his or her attack roll, and the character deals nonlethal damage equal to 1d8 + the character's Strength modifier.
Normal: Unarmed attacks normally deal nonlethal damage equal to 1d3 + Strength modifier.

Improved Bull Rush
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack.
Benefit: When the character performs a bull rush, the character does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender.

Improved Combat Martial Arts
Prerequisites: Combat Martial Arts, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: The character's threat range on an unarmed strike improves to 19-20.
Normal: A character without this feat threatens a critical hit with an unarmed strike only on a 20.

Improved Combat Throw
Prerequisites: Defensive Martial Arts, Combat Throw, base attack bonus +3.
Benefit: In melee combat, if an opponent attacks and misses the character, the character may immediately make a trip attack against the opponent. This counts as an attack of opportunity, which the character can make even if he or she is unarmed. Attacking unarmed in this way does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
Special: This feat doesn't grant the character more attacks of opportunity than he or she is normally allowed in a round.

Improved Damage Threshold
Benefit: The character increases his or her massive damage threshold by 3 points.
Normal: A character without this feat has a massive damage threshold equal to his or her current Constitution score. With this feat, the character's massive damage threshold is current Con +3.
Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.

Improved Disarm
Prerequisites: Intelligence 13, Combat Expertise.
Benefit: The character does not provoke an attack of opportunity when the character attempts to disarm an opponent, nor does the opponent get a chance to disarm the character.

Improved Feint
Prerequisites: Intelligence 13, Brawl, Streetfighting.
Benefit: The character can make a Bluff check in combat as a move action. The character receives a +2 bonus on Bluff checks made to feint in melee combat.
Normal: Feinting in combat requires an attack action.

Improved Initiative
Benefit: The character gets a +4 circumstance bonus on initiative checks.

Improved Knockout Punch
Prerequisites: Brawl, Knockout Punch, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: When making the character's first unarmed attack against a flat-footed opponent, treat a successful attack as a critical hit. This critical hit deals triple damage. The damage is nonlethal damage.
Special: Even if the character has the ability to treat unarmed damage as lethal damage, the damage from a knockout punch is always nonlethal.

Improved Trip
Prerequisites: Intelligence 13, Combat Expertise.
Benefit: The character does not provoke an attack of opportunity when the character tries to trip an opponent while the character is unarmed.
If the character trips an opponent in melee combat, the character immediately gets to make a melee attack against that opponent as if the character had not used his or her attack action for the trip attempt.

Improved Two-Weapon Fighting
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Two-Weapon Fighting, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: The character gets a second attack with his or her offhand weapon, albeit at a -5 penalty.  Also, this feat allows the character to use a melee weapon in one hand and a ranged weapon in the other.
Normal: Without this feat, a character can only get a single extra attack with an off-hand weapon, and both weapons must be of the same type (either both ranged weapons or both melee weapons).

Iron Will
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Will saving throws.

Knockout Punch
Prerequisites: Brawl, base attack bonus +3.
Benefit: When making the character's first unarmed attack against a flat-footed opponent, treat a successful attack as a critical hit. This damage is nonlethal damage.
Special: Even if the character has the ability to treat unarmed damage as lethal damage, the damage from a knockout punch is always nonlethal.

Lightning Reflexes
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Reflex saving throws.

Low Profile
Benefit: Reduce the character's Reputation bonus by 3 points.

Medical Expert
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Craft (pharmaceutical) checks and Treat Injury checks.
Special: Remember that the Craft (pharmaceutical) skill can't be used untrained.

Meticulous
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Forgery checks and Search checks.

Mobility
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge.
Benefit: The character gets a +4 dodge bonus to Defense against attacks of opportunity provoked when the character moves out of a threatened square.
Special: A condition that makes a character lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense also makes the character lose dodge bonuses. Also, dodge bonuses stack with each other, unlike most other types of bonuses.

Nimble
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Escape Artist checks and Sleight of Hand checks.
Special: Remember that the Sleight of Hand skill can't be used untrained.

Personal Firearms Proficiency
Benefit: The character can fire any personal firearm without penalty.
Normal: Characters without this feat take a -4 penalty on attack rolls made with personal firearms.

Point Blank Shot
Benefit: The character gets a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls with ranged weapons against opponents within 30 feet.

Power Attack
Prerequisite: Strength 13.
Benefit: On the character's action, before making attack rolls for a round, the character may choose to subtract a number from all melee attack rolls and add the same number to all melee damage rolls. This number may not exceed the character's base attack bonus. The penalty on attacks and bonus on damage applies until the character's next action.

Precise Shot
Prerequisite: Point Blank Shot.
Benefit: The character can shoot or throw ranged weapons at an opponent engaged in melee without penalty.
Normal: A character takes a -4 penalty when using a ranged weapon to attack an opponent who is engaged in melee combat.

Quick Draw
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: The character can draw a weapon as a free action. A character with this feat may throw weapons at his or her full normal rate of attacks.
Normal: A character can draw a weapon as a move action. If a character has a base attack bonus of +1 or higher, the character can draw a weapon as a free action when moving.

Quick Reload
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: Reloading a firearm with an already filled box magazine or speed loader is a free action. Reloading a revolver without a speed loader, or reloading any firearm with an internal magazine, is a move action.
Normal: Reloading a firearm with an already filled box magazine or speed loader is a move action. Reloading a revolver without a speed loader, or reloading any firearm with an internal magazine, is a full-round action.

Renown
Benefit: The character's Reputation bonus increases by +3.

Run
Benefit: When running, the character moves a maximum of five times his or her normal speed instead of four times. If the character is in heavy armor, the character can move four times his or her speed rather than three times. If the character makes a long jump, the character gains a +2 competence bonus on his or her Jump check.

Shot on the Run
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Point Blank Shot, Dodge, Mobility.
Benefit: When using an attack action with a ranged weapon, the character can move both before and after the attack, provided that the character's total distance moved is not greater than his or her speed.

Simple Weapons Proficiency
Benefit: The character makes attack rolls with simple weapons normally.
Normal: A character without this feat takes the -4 nonproficient penalty when making attacks with simple weapons.

Skip Shot
Prerequisites: Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot.
Benefit: If the character has a solid, relatively smooth surface on which to skip a bullet (such as a street or a concrete wall), and a target within 10 feet of that surface, the character may ignore cover between the character and the target. However, the character receives a -2 penalty on his or her attack roll, and the character's attack deals -1 die of damage. 
Special: The surface doesn't have to be perfectly smooth and level; a brick wall or an asphalt road can be used. The target can have no more than nine-tenths cover for A character to attempt a skip shot.

Spring Attack
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Dodge, Mobility, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: When using an attack action with a melee weapon, the character can move both before and after the attack, provided that the total distance moved is not greater than the charater's speed.
Moving in this way does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the defender the character is attacking (though it can provoke attacks of opportunity from others, as normal).
A character can't use this feat if he or she is carrying a heavy load or wearing heavy armor.

Stealthy
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Hide checks and Move Silently checks. 

Strafe
Prerequisites: Personal Firearms Proficiency, Advanced Firearms Proficiency.
Benefit: When using a firearm on autofire, the character can affect an area four 5-foot squares long and one square wide (that is, any four squares in a straight line).
Normal: A firearm on autofire normally affects a 10-foot-by-10-foot area.

Streetfighting
Prerequisites: Brawl, base attack bonus +2.
Benefit: Once per round, if the character makes a successful melee attack with an unarmed strike or a light weapon, the character deals an extra 1d4 points of damage.

Studious
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Decipher Script checks and Research checks. 

Sunder
Prerequisites: Strength 13, Power Attack.
Benefit: When the character strikes an object held or carried by an opponent, such as a weapon, the character does not provoke an attack of opportunity.
The character gains a +4 bonus on any attack roll made to attack an object held or carried by another character. The character deals double normal damage to objects, whether they are held or carried or not.
Normal: A character without this feat incurs an attack of opportunity when he or she strikes at an object held or carried by another character.

Surface Vehicle Operation
Select a class of surface vehicle (heavy wheeled, powerboat, sailboat, ship, or tracked). The character is proficient at operating that class of vehicle.
The heavy wheeled class includes all kinds of semi-trucks and tractor-trailers, as well as wheeled construction vehicles (such as earth movers) and wheeled armored vehicles (such as some armored personnel carriers). Powerboats are engine-powered water vessels designed for operation by a single person and usually no more than 100 feet in length. Sailboats are wind-powered water vessels. Ships are large, multicrewed water vessels. Tracked vehicles include bulldozers and tanks and other military vehicles.
Prerequisite: Drive 4 ranks.
Benefit: The character takes no penalty on Drive checks or attack rolls made when operating a surface vehicle of the selected class.
Normal: Characters without this feat take a -4 penalty on Drive checks made to operate a surface vehicle that falls under any of these classes, and to attacks made with vehicle weapons. There is no penalty when you operate a general-purpose surface vehicle.
Special: A character can gain this feat as many as five times. Each time the character takes the feat, he or she selects a different class of surface vehicle.

Surgery
Prerequisite: Treat Injury 4 ranks.
Benefit: The character can use the Treat Injury skill to perform surgery without penalty.  See the Treat Injury skill description.
Normal: Characters without this feat take a -4 penalty on Treat Injury checks made to perform surgery.

Toughness
Benefit: The character gains +3 hit points.
Special: A character may gain this feat multiple times. Its effects stack.

Track
Benefit: To find tracks or follow them for one mile requires a Survival check.
Trustworthy
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Diplomacy checks and Gather Information checks. 

Two-Weapon Fighting
Prerequisite: Dexterity 13.
Benefit: The character's penalties for fighting with two weapons are lessened by 2 for the primary hand and 6 for the off hand.
The weapons used must both be melee weapons or both be ranged weapons (the character can't mix the types).

Unbalance Opponent
Prerequisites: Defensive Martial Arts, base attack bonus +6.
Benefit: During the character's action, the character designates an opponent no more than one size category larger or smaller than the character. That opponent doesn't get to add his or her Strength modifier to attack rolls when targeting the character. (If the opponent has a Strength penalty, he or hse still takes that penalty.)
The opponent's Strength modifier applies to damage, as usual.
The character can select a new opponent on any action.

Vehicle Dodge
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Drive 6 ranks or Pilot 6 ranks, Vehicle Expert.
Benefit: When driving a vehicle, during the character's action the character designates an opposing vehicle or a single opponent. The character's vehicle and everyone aboard it receive a +1 dodge bonus to Defense against attacks from that vehicle or opponent. The character can select a new vehicle or opponent on any action.

Vehicle Expert
Benefit: The character gets a +2 bonus on all Drive checks and Pilot checks.

Weapon Finesse
Choose one light melee weapon, a rapier (if the character can use it with one hand), or a chain.  A character can choose unarmed strike or grapple as a weapon for the purposes of this feat.
Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: With the selected melee weapon, the character may use his or her Dexterity modifier instead of his or her Strength modifier on attack rolls.
Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, the character selects a different weapon.

Weapon Focus
Choose a specific weapon. A character can choose unarmed strike or grapple for your weapon for purposes of this feat.
Prerequisites: Proficient with weapon, base attack bonus +1.
Benefit: The character gains a +1 bonus on all attack rolls he or she makes using the selected weapon.
Special: A character can gain this feat multiple times. Each time the character takes the feat, the character must select a different weapon.

Whirlwind Attack
Prerequisites: Dexterity 13, Intelligence 13, Dodge, Mobility, Spring Attack, Combat Expertise, base attack bonus +4.
Benefit: When the character performs a full-round action, the character can give up his or her regular attacks and instead make one melee attack at the character's highest base attack bonus against each adjacent opponent.

Wild Talent 
Benefit: Select one 0-level psionic power. The character can manifest this power up to three times in a 24-hour period. There is no power point cost for using this power. For effects that depends on manifester level the character is considered 1st level or his or her manifester level, whichever is higher.

Windfall
Benefit: The character's Wealth bonus increases by +3. Also, this feat provides a +1 bonus on all Profession checks.
Special: A character can select this feat multiple times. Each time, both of its effects stack.

START FEATS FOR: arcana

ARCANE SKILLS
You have access to arcane skills.
Benefit: The character gains the following class skills, as described under the Mage advanced class: Concentration, Craft (chemical), and Spellcraft. Further, the character gains Use Magic Device as a class skill, as described under the Occultist advanced class.
This feat does not in and of itself grant spellcasting ability.
Normal: Arcane skills are special class skills available to the Acolyte, Occultist, Mage, Mystic, and Techno Mage advanced classes. Other classes may not buy ranks in these skills without this feat.

DELAY POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest powers that trigger a set duration after manifestation.
Benefit: A delayed power doesn’t activate until 1 to 5 rounds after you finish manifesting it. You determine the delay when manifesting the power, and it cannot be changed once set. The power activates just before your turn on the round you designate. Only area, personal, and touch powers may be affected by this feat. Any decisions you would make about the power (including attack rolls, designating targets, or determining or shaping an area) are decided when the power is manifested, while any effects resolved by those affected by the power (including saving throws) are decided when the power triggers. A delayed power may be negated normally during the delay, and can be detected normally in the area or on the target with powers that can detect psionic effects. A delayed power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +6.

DIVINE HERITAGE [INITIAL]
You have divine spellcasting abilities in your background, such as a saint in your family tree, or you have had a divine experience, revelation, or epiphany which has left you with modest divine abilities.
Prerequisite: Wisdom 10.
Benefit: Choose three 0-level divine spells (“orisons”). You may cast each of these spells once per day per your divine spellcasting level (minimum 1).
Special: You may only take this feat as a 1st-level character.

EMPOWER SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells to greater effect.
Benefit: All variable, numeric effects of an empowered spell are increased by one-half. An empowered spell deals half again as much damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half again as many targets, and so forth, as appropriate. For example, an empowered magic missile deals 1 1/2 times normal damage (roll 1d4+1 and multiply the result by 1.5 for each missile). Saving throws and opposed rolls (such as the one you make when you cast dispel magic) are not affected. Spells without random variables are not affected.
An empowered spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell’s actual level.

EMPOWER TURNING
You can turn or rebuke (or awe or command) more creatures with a single turning check.
Prerequisite: Ability to turn or rebuke one or more creature types, Charisma 13.
Benefit: If you take a –2 penalty on your roll to turn or rebuke (or awe or command) a group of creatures, you can add +2d6 to your turning damage roll.

ENLARGE POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest powers farther than normal.
Benefit: An enlarged power has its range doubled. Powers whose ranges are not defined by distance do not have their ranges increased. Determine an enlarged power’s area or effect as if you were two manifester levels higher than you actually are. An enlarged power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2.

ENLARGE SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells farther than normal.
Benefit: An enlarged spell has its range doubled. Spells whose ranges are not defined by distance do not have their ranges increased. A spell whose area or effect is determined by its range (such as bless or a cone spell) has the dimensions of its area or effect increased proportionally.
An enlarged spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

ESCHEW MATERIALS [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells without relying on material components.
Benefit: An eschewed spell can be cast with no material components. Spells without material components or whose material components have a Purchase DC of 4 or greater are not affected by this feat.
An eschewed spell uses up a spell slot of the spell’s normal level, modified by any other metamagic feats.

EXTEND POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest powers that last longer than normal.
Benefit: An extended power lasts twice as long as normal. Powers with a concentration, instantaneous, or permanent duration are not extended. An extended power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +2.

EXTEND SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells that last longer than normal.
Benefit: An extended spell lasts twice as long as normal. Spells with a concentration, instantaneous, or permanent duration are not affected by this feat.
An extended spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

EXTRA TURNING
You can turn or rebuke a creature type more often than normal.
Prerequisites: Ability to turn or rebuke one or more creature types.
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, you can turn or rebuke a particular creature type four more times per day than normal.
Normal: Without this feat, a character can typically turn or rebuke a creature type (usually undead) a number of times per day equal to three plus his Charisma modifier.
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat, you may apply its effects to one creature type you can turn or rebuke. Its effects stack.

FLEET OF FOOT
You can turn corners without losing momentum.
Prerequisite: Run.
Benefit: When running or charging, you can make a single direction change of 90 degrees or less. You cannot use this feat while wearing medium or heavy armor, or if you’re carrying a medium or heavy load.
Normal: Without this feat, you can run or charge only in a straight line.

GREATER SPELL FOCUS
Choose a school of magic, such as Evocation or Illusion, for which you have already selected the Spell Focus feat. Your spells of that school are even more potent than normal.
Prerequisites: Spell Focus, caster level 6.
Benefit: Add +2 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the focused school of magic you select. This overlaps (does not stack) with the bonus from Spell Focus (see below).
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack with itself. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic.

GREATER SPELL PENETRATION
Your spells are remarkably potent, breaking through spell resistance more readily than normal.
Prerequisites: Spell Penetration.
Benefit: You get a +4 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) to beat a creature’s spell resistance. This overlaps (does not stack) with the bonus from Spell Penetration (see below).

HEIGHTEN POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest a power as if it were a higher level than it actually is.
Benefit: A heightened power has a higher psionic power level than normal. Unlike other metapsionic feats, Heighten Power actually increases the effective level of the power that it modifies. All effects dependent on power level (such as saving throw DCs) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened power costs as many power points as a power of its effective level.

HEIGHTEN SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast a spell as if it were a higher level than it actually is.
Benefit: A heightened spell has a higher spell level than normal. Unlike other metamagic feats, Heighten Spell actually increases the effective level of the spell that it modifies. All effects dependent on spell level (such as saving throw DCs) are calculated according to the heightened level. The heightened spell is as difficult to prepare and cast as a spell of its effective level.

HIDE POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest powers without a telltale display.
Benefit: A psionic power can be manifested without one associated display characteristic chosen by you when you take the feat: auditory, material, mental, olfactory, or visual.
The hidden power costs a number of power points equal to the standard cost +2.
Special: You can take this feat multiple times, each time choosing a different display characteristic to hide while manifesting a given power.

IMPROVED GRAPPLE
You are skilled at grappling opponents.
Prerequisites: Brawl, Dexterity 13.
Benefit: You do not provoke an attack of opportunity when you make a touch attack to start a grapple. You also gain a +4 competence bonus on all grapple checks (regardless of whether you started the grapple).
Normal: Characters without this feat provoke an attack of opportunity when they initiate a grapple.

IMPROVED OVERRUN
You are skilled at knocking down opponents.
Prerequisites: Power Attack, Strength 13.
Benefit: When you attempt to overrun an opponent, the target may not choose to avoid you. You also gain a +4 competence bonus on the Strength check to knock down your opponent.
Normal: Without this feat, the target of an overrun can choose to avoid you or to block you.

IMPROVED NATURAL HEALING
You recover from wounds and injury faster than normal.
Prerequisite: Base Fortitude save bonus +5.
Benefit: You recover 2 hit points per character level per rest period (8 hours of sleep). If you undergo complete bed rest (doing nothing for the entire day), you recover 4 hit points per character level per day. Ability damage returns at 2 points for resting 8 hours, or 4 points per day with complete bed rest.
Normal: Normal natural healing is 1 hit point per character level for 8 hours rest, or 2 hit points per character level per day for complete bed rest. Ability damage returns at 1 point for 8 hours rest, or 2 points per day with complete bed rest.

IMPROVED TURNING
Your turning or rebuke attempts are more powerful than normal.
Prerequisites: Ability to turn or rebuke a creature type.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on your turning checks. This feat may be taken multiple times, though each time must be applied to a different creature type which you may normally turn.

JACK OF ALL TRADES
You have an amateur’s knowledge of all skills, even ones that require training.
Prerequisite: Character level 8.
Benefit: You may use any skill untrained, including arcane and psionic skills. You cannot, however, gain ranks in a skill unless you are normally allowed to gain ranks in the skill.

MAGICAL AFFINITY
You have a knack for magical endeavors.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on all Spellcraft checks and Use Magic Device checks.

MAGICAL HERITAGE [INITIAL]
You have magical ability in your background, such as a sorcerer in your bloodline, or you gained access to magic at a particularly young age (by discovering a spellbook in your attic, for example). As a result, you mastered some basic spellcasting.
Prerequisite: Intelligence 10.
Benefit: Choose three 0-level arcane spells (“cantrips”). You may cast each of these spells once per day per your arcane spellcasting level (minimum 1). You are treated as a Mage for purposes of arcane spell failure chance when you are wearing armor.
Special: You may only take this feat as a 1st-level character.

NONLETHAL SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can modify a spell to deal nonlethal instead of lethal damage.
Benefit: You may modify a spell that deals lethal damage to deal nonlethal damage instead. All other effects of the spell remain normal (for example, a nonlethal fireball may still set flammable objects ablaze).
A nonlethal spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

PERSISTENT POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You make one of your powers last all day.
Prerequisite: Extend Power.
Benefit: A persistent power has a duration of 24 hours. The persistent power must have a personal range or a fixed range; you can’t use this feat on a power with a variable range, or on a power with an instantaneous duration. Note that you must concentrate on some powers to use their effects (for example, detect psionics and detect thoughts); concentration on such a power is an attack or move action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity. A persistent power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.

POWER CRIT
You may threaten a critical hit if you succeed in hitting an opponent.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +10, proficiency with weapon.
Benefit: You may spend an action point before making an attack with a weapon with which you are proficient. If the attack hits, it automatically threatens a critical hit (regardless of whether the attack roll falls within the weapon’s actual threat range). You must roll to confirm the critical hit, as normal. This is a supernatural ability.
Normal: You must roll in the threat range of a weapon, then confirm that threat to score a critical hit.

PRECISE STRIKE
Your strikes against an opponent are treated as touch attacks.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +5.
Benefit: Before making an attack on your turn, choose a single opponent and spend an action point. Until the beginning of your next turn, any attacks you make against that opponent use that opponent’s touch Defense instead of the opponent’s normal Defense.

PSIONIC SKILLS
You have access to psionic skills. Check with your GM to make sure he or she allows psionics in the campaign. You must have the GM’s permission to choose this feat.
Benefit: The character gains the following class skills, as described under the Telepath advanced class: Autohypnosis, Concentration, and Psicraft. This feat does not in and of itself grant psionic ability.
Normal: Psionic skills are special skills available to the Telepath and Battle Mind advanced classes. Other classes may not buy ranks in these skills without this feat.

QUICKEN POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest powers as free actions with but a moment’s thought.
Benefit: You can perform another action, even manifest another power, in the same round as you manifest a quickened power. You may only manifest one quickened power per round. A power whose manifesting time is more than 1 full round cannot be quickened.
A quickened power does not provoke an attack of opportunity. 
The quickened power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.

REACH SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast touch spells without touching the spell recipient.
Benefit: You may cast a spell that normally has a range of “touch” at any distance up to 30 feet. You must succeed at a ranged touch attack to cast the spell upon the recipient. A reach spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell’s actual level.

SACRED SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells imbued with divine energy.
Benefit: Half of the damage dealt by a sacred spell is converted into divine energy, and as such is not prevented by abilities or spells that reduce or prevent damage from a particular type of energy. For example, half the damage from a sacred flaming wrath spell would not be negated by fire resistance or fire immunity. Only divine spells that deal damage may be made into sacred spells.
A sacred spell uses up a spell slot two levels higher than the spell’s actual level.

SHADOWBANE SPELL [METAMAGIC]
Your spells are more effective against creatures of Shadow.
Benefit: Creatures of Shadow and characters with shadowblood (humans of shadow heritage, or elves and dwarves, for example) take a –4 penalty on the spell’s saving throw.
This feat cannot improve spells that do not allow saves.
A shadowbane spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

SHADOW HERITAGE [INITIAL]
You have a creature of Shadow in your distant ancestry. The exact nature of that shadowblood is immaterial (though it may be a source of adventure), as the overpowering human genetic tide has reduced its special abilities to a few salient features.
Benefit: You gain a +1 inherent bonus on one saving throw of your choice. You also gain low-light vision, which allows you to see twice as far as a normal human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar conditions of poor illumination. You retain the ability to distinguish color and detail under these conditions.
Special: You may only take this feat as a 1st-level character.

SIGNATURE SPELL
You are so familiar with a mastered spell that you can spontaneously cast it, converting other prepared spells into that spell.
Prerequisite: Spell Mastery ability.
Benefit: Each time you take this feat, choose a spell that you have mastered with Spell Mastery. You may now convert prepared arcane spells of that spell’s level or higher into this signature spell, just as an Acolyte of good allegiance may spontaneously cast prepared spells as cure spells.
Special: You may gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spell that meets the prerequisites.

SILENT SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells silently.
Benefit: A silent spell can be cast with no verbal components. Spells without verbal components are not affected. A silent spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

SPELL FOCUS
Choose a school of magic, such as Evocation or Illusion. Your spells of that school are more potent than normal.
Benefit: Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against spells from the school of magic you select to focus on.
Special: You can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects do not stack. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new school of magic.

SPELL PENETRATION
Your spells are especially potent, breaking through spell resistance more readily than normal.
Benefit: You gain a +2 bonus on caster level checks (1d20 + caster level) to beat a creature’s spell resistance.

SPELLSLINGER
You have a gift for magic that allows you to cast more spells than normal.
Prerequisite: Intelligence 13 (for arcane spellcasters) or Wisdom 13 (for divine spellcasters).
Benefit: For any one spellcasting advanced class in which you have levels, you can prepare and cast one additional spell per spell level known. For instance, Lily Parrish, a 3rd-level Dedicated Hero/3rd-level Acolyte, can prepare and cast an additional 0-level, 1st-level, and 2nd-level divine spell per day (since she can cast up to and including 2nd-level divine spells).
Special: You may gain this feat multiple times. Each time you take the feat, it applies to a new spellcasting class.

STILL SPELL [METAMAGIC]
You can cast spells without gestures.
Benefit: A still spell can be cast with no somatic components. Spells without somatic components are not affected. A still spell uses up a spell slot one level higher than the spell’s actual level.

SUPERNATURAL STRIKE
You may score critical hits against creatures that are normally unaffected by critical hits.
Prerequisite: Base attack bonus +2 or better.
Benefit: When you roll a threat against a creature normally unaffected by critical hits (such as a construct, ooze, or undead), you may check for a critical hit and deal the increased damage if the threat is confirmed. Creatures unaffected by massive damage are still unaffected by massive damage resulting from a critical hit. This is a supernatural ability.

TWIN POWER [METAPSIONIC]
You can manifest a power simultaneously with another power just like it.
Benefit: Manifesting a power altered by this feat causes the power to take effect twice on the target, as if you were simultaneously manifesting the same power two times on the same location or target. Any variables in the power (such as targets, shaping an area, and so on) apply to both of the resulting powers. The target suffers all the effects of both powers individually and receives a saving throw for each. In some cases, failure of both of the target’s saving throws results in redundant effects, such as a twinned charm person, although any ally of the target would have to succeed at two negate attempts in order to free the target from the charm. A twinned power costs a number of power points equal to its standard cost +8.

VEHICLE SPECIALIZATION
You are proficient with one type of vehicle.
Benefit: Choose a vehicle type (civilian aircraft, civilian cars, civilian motorcycles, civilian trucks, civilian water vehicles, other civilian vehicles, or military vehicles). When you are in control of a vehicle of the specified type, you gain a +2 competence bonus on skill checks, ability checks, and saving throws involving the vehicle.

WILD TALENT
You have a minor parahuman psionic power. Check with your GM to make sure she is using psionics before selecting this feat. This feat may be used even if psionics are not part of the campaign, in which case psionics are treated as spell-like abilities.
Benefit: You may use one of the following 0-level psionic powers: burst, daze, detect psionics, distract, far hand, far punch, finger of fire, missive, or verve. You can manifest this power up to three times per day. There is no Power Point cost for using this power.

END OF FEATS